docs: add release notes for 20.1.0 (#5910)
dashpay/dash: doc/release-notes.md

# Notable changes

## HD Wallets Enabled by Default

In this release, we are taking a significant step towards enhancing the Dash wallet's usability by enabling Hierarchical
Deterministic (HD) wallets by default. This change aligns the behavior of `dashd` and `dash-qt` with the previously
optional `-usehd=1` flag, making HD wallets the standard for all users.

While HD wallets are now enabled by default to improve user experience, Dash Core still allows for the creation of
non-HD wallets by using the `-usehd=0` flag. However, users should be aware that this option is intended for legacy
support and will be removed in future releases. Importantly, even with an HD wallet, users can still import non-HD
private keys, ensuring flexibility in managing their funds.

> ## Configuration option changes

Reviewer: Suggestion on @knst's suggestion :slightly_smiling_face: 
```suggestion
## Windows release signing

Windows releases are signed by a new certificate that replaces the expired one used previously.
```

> ## Configuration option changes
> 

Reviewer 2: that's what `Command-line options` section describes, right?
```suggestion
```

## RPC changes

- `protx info`: It's now possible to get historical data at a specific block by providing its blockhash.
- RPC `gettxchainlocks` will also return the status `mempool` indicating whether the transaction is in the mempool 
or not.
- Exposed transaction version numbers are now treated as unsigned 16-bit integers instead of signed 16-bit integers.
This matches their treatment in consensus logic. Versions greater than 3 continue to be non-standard (matching previous
behavior of smaller than 1 or greater than 3 being non-standard). Note that this includes the joinpsbt command, which
combines partially-signed transactions by selecting the highest version number.

> - New RPC `getrawtransactionmulti` that can return batch up to 100 raw transactions at one request.

Reviewer: Also, this RPC should be moved down to the "Added RPCs" section
```suggestion
- New RPC `getrawtransactionmulti` that can return a batch of up to 100 raw transactions per request.
```

> - The `getpeerinfo` RPC now returns a `connection_type` field. This indicates the type of connection established with
> the peer. It will return one of six options. For more information, see the `getpeerinfo` help documentation.
> - The `getpeerinfo` RPC now has additional `last_block` and `last_transaction` fields that return the UNIX epoch time
> of the last block and the last valid transaction received from each peer. (#19731)
> - `getblockchaininfo` now returns a new `time` field, that provides the chain tip time.
> - `fundrawtransaction` and `walletcreatefundedpsbt` when used with the `lockUnspents` argument now lock manually
> selected coins, in addition to automatically selected coins. Note that locked coins are never used in automatic coin
> selection, but can still be manually selected.
> - The `testmempoolaccept` RPC returns `vsize` and a `fee` object with the `base` fee if the transaction passes
> validation. The `testmempoolaccept` RPC now accepts multiple transactions (still experimental at the moment, API may be
> unstable).

Reviewer: Maybe make these all consistent?
```suggestion
- `getpeerinfo`: now returns a `connection_type` field. This indicates the type of connection established with
the peer. It will return one of six options. For more information, see the `getpeerinfo` help documentation.
- `getpeerinfo`: now has additional `last_block` and `last_transaction` fields that return the UNIX epoch time
of the last block and the last valid transaction received from each peer. (#19731)
- `getblockchaininfo`: now returns a new `time` field, that provides the chain tip time.
- `fundrawtransaction` and `walletcreatefundedpsbt`: when used with the `lockUnspents` argument now lock manually
selected coins, in addition to automatically selected coins. Note that locked coins are never used in automatic coin
selection, but can still be manually selected.
- `testmempoolaccept`: returns `vsize` and a `fee` object with the `base` fee if the transaction passes
validation. The `testmempoolaccept` RPC now accepts multiple transactions (still experimental at the moment, API may be
unstable).
```

## Added RPCs

- `submitchainlock`: allows the submission of a ChainLock signature. Note: This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform
RPC user.
- `getassetunlockstatuses`: allows fetching of Asset Unlock txs by their withdrawal index. The RPC accepts an array
of indexes and an optional block height. The possible outcomes per each index are: `chainlocked`, `mined`, `mempooled`,
`unknown`. Note: If a specific block height is passed on request, then only `chainlocked` and `unknown` outcomes are
possible. This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform RPC user.
- `quorum dkginfo`: returns information about DKGs: `active_dkgs` and `next_dkg`.

> - `getrawtransactionmulti`: that can return a batch of up to 100 raw transactions per request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `getrawtransactionmulti`: allows requesting a batch of up to 100 raw transactions per request.
```

> - `submitchainlock` RPC allows the submission of a ChainLock signature. Note: This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform
> RPC user.
> - `getassetunlockstatuses` RPC allows fetching of Asset Unlock txs by their withdrawal index. The RPC accepts an array
> of indexes and an optional block height. The possible outcomes per each index are: `chainlocked`, `mined`, `mempooled`,
> `unknown`. Note: If a specific block height is passed on request, then only `chainlocked` and `unknown` outcomes are
> possible. This RPC is whited for the Platform RPC user.
> - `quorum dkginfo` RPC returns information about DKGs: `active_dkgs` and `next_dkg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `submitchainlock`: allows the submission of a ChainLock signature. Note: This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform
RPC user.
- `getassetunlockstatuses`: allows fetching of Asset Unlock txs by their withdrawal index. The RPC accepts an array
of indexes and an optional block height. The possible outcomes per each index are: `chainlocked`, `mined`, `mempooled`,
`unknown`. Note: If a specific block height is passed on request, then only `chainlocked` and `unknown` outcomes are
possible. This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform RPC user.
- `quorum dkginfo`: returns information about DKGs: `active_dkgs` and `next_dkg`.
```

## Docker Build System

Modified the Dockerfile to exclude the `dash-qt` graphical wallet interface from the set of binaries copied to
`/usr/local/bin` during the Docker image build process. This change streamlines the Docker image, making it more
suitable for server environments and headless applications, where the graphical user interface of `dash-qt` is not
required. The update enhances the Docker image's efficiency by reducing its size and minimizing unnecessary components.

> ## Command-line options

Reviewer 2: 2 new options:
`-capturemessages` Capture all P2P messages to disk, see contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md for more info
`-startupnotify=<cmd>` Execute command on startup.

Author: https://github.com/dashpay/dash/pull/5910/files#diff-e04cb1e9f29f76897c6b84334238f621ff45ba13cf180ad1d0d442d50ebe51f7R89-R90

The same ZeroMQ notification (e.g. `-zmqpubhashtx=address`) can now be specified multiple times to publish the same
notification to different ZeroMQ sockets.

## Notification changes

> - `-walletnotify` notifications are now sent for wallet transactions that are removed from the mempool because they
> conflict with a new block. These notifications were sent previously before the v18.1 release, but had been broken since
> that release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-walletnotify` notifications are now sent for wallet transactions that are removed from the mempool because they
conflict with a new block. These notifications were sent previously, but have been broken since
the v18.1 release.
```

- The `startupnotify` option is used to specify a command to execute when Dash Core has finished with its startup
sequence.

## Build System

The `--enable-upnp-default` and `--enable-natpmp-default` options have been removed. If you want to use port mapping,
you can configure it using a `.conf` file, or by passing the relevant options at runtime.

## Wallet

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Author: Why didn't they have WIP release notes!?!

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Reviewer 3: @thephez try on testnet:
Copy in clipboard (or save in file):
```
cHNidP8BADMCAAAAAdSfUVEPM7KznCV+HnT+rDxtfu42z/QAeAIz+HfGfO9CAAAAAAD/////AAAAAAAAAA==
```
Click "File -> Load from clipboard"

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Reviewer 3: @thephez you still can't create PSBT transaction with GUI only, but you can sign it with GUI now.
I used this CLI command to create PSBT transaction:
```
createpsbt '[{"txid":"42ef7cc677f833027800f4cf36ee7e6d3cacfe741e7e259cb3b2330f51519fd4", "vout":0}]' '[]'
```

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Author: Hmm; feels like we shouldn't add this info here then. A bit too technical still IMO

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Author: > there's several changes from backports that didn't have dedicated release note in bitcoin but maybe useful to mention that

@thephez I updated the suggestion here: please review

> - The wallet can create a transaction without change even when the keypool is empty. Previously it failed.

Reviewer: Change the last one to smth like:
Added a "Close all wallet" menu item for Dash-Qt

And make them all indented at the same level.

## Backports from Bitcoin Core

This release introduces many updates from Bitcoin  v0.20-v25.0. Breaking changes are documented here; however, for
additional detail on what’s included in Bitcoin, please refer to their release notes.

# v20.1.0 Change log

See detailed [set of changes][set-of-changes].

# Credits

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- Kittywhiskers Van Gogh
- Konstantin Akimov
- Odysseas Gabrielides
- PastaPastaPasta
- thephez
- UdjinM6

> - Vijay Manikpuri

Reviewer 2: Good catch! https://github.com/dashpay/dash/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Apanleone+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A20.1 https://github.com/panleone Alessandro Rezzi

> - Vijay Manikpuri

Author: Done

# Notable changes

## HD Wallets Enabled by Default

In this release, we are taking a significant step towards enhancing the Dash wallet's usability by enabling Hierarchical
Deterministic (HD) wallets by default. This change aligns the behavior of `dashd` and `dash-qt` with the previously
optional `-usehd=1` flag, making HD wallets the standard for all users.

While HD wallets are now enabled by default to improve user experience, Dash Core still allows for the creation of
non-HD wallets by using the `-usehd=0` flag. However, users should be aware that this option is intended for legacy
support and will be removed in future releases. Importantly, even with an HD wallet, users can still import non-HD
private keys, ensuring flexibility in managing their funds.

## Windows release signing

Windows releases are signed by a new certificate that replaces the expired one used previously.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

# Removal of Non-Deterministic InstantSend

Legacy InstantSend was deprecated with the activation of Deterministic InstantSend but we kept the underlying logic for some time to ensure a smooth transition. v20.1 finally removes all Legacy InstantSend logic and will no longer support sending and receiving islock p2p message and inv p2p message with id equal 30. Such messages will be seen as unknown by v20.1 nodes. The protocol version was incremented to 70231 to indicate a change in network protocol. Please note that the -llmqinstantsend and -llmqtestinstantsend command line options have also been removed as part of this change.

```

# Notable changes

## HD Wallets Enabled by Default

In this release, we are taking a significant step towards enhancing the Dash wallet's usability by enabling Hierarchical
Deterministic (HD) wallets by default. This change aligns the behavior of `dashd` and `dash-qt` with the previously
optional `-usehd=1` flag, making HD wallets the standard for all users.

While HD wallets are now enabled by default to improve user experience, Dash Core still allows for the creation of
non-HD wallets by using the `-usehd=0` flag. However, users should be aware that this option is intended for legacy
support and will be removed in future releases. Importantly, even with an HD wallet, users can still import non-HD
private keys, ensuring flexibility in managing their funds.

## Windows release signing

Windows releases are signed by a new certificate that replaces the expired one used previously.

## RPC changes

- `protx info`: It's now possible to get historical data at a specific block by providing its blockhash.

> - RPC `gettxchainlocks` will also return the status `mempool` indicating whether the transaction is in the mempool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `gettxchainlocks`: will now return the status `mempool` indicating whether the transaction is in the mempool.
```

or not.
- Exposed transaction version numbers are now treated as unsigned 16-bit integers instead of signed 16-bit integers.
This matches their treatment in consensus logic. Versions greater than 3 continue to be non-standard (matching previous
behavior of smaller than 1 or greater than 3 being non-standard). Note that this includes the joinpsbt command, which
combines partially-signed transactions by selecting the highest version number.
- `getpeerinfo`: now returns a `connection_type` field. This indicates the type of connection established with
the peer. It will return one of six options. For more information, see the `getpeerinfo` help documentation.
- `getpeerinfo`: now has additional `last_block` and `last_transaction` fields that return the UNIX epoch time
of the last block and the last valid transaction received from each peer.

> - `getblockchaininfo`: now returns a new `time` field, that provides the chain tip time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `getblockchaininfo`: now returns a new `time` field that provides the chain tip time.
```

of indexes and an optional block height. The possible outcomes per each index are: `chainlocked`, `mined`, `mempooled`,
`unknown`. Note: If a specific block height is passed on request, then only `chainlocked` and `unknown` outcomes are
possible. This RPC is whitelisted for the Platform RPC user.
- `quorum dkginfo`: returns information about DKGs: `active_dkgs` and `next_dkg`.
- `getrawtransactionmulti`: allows requesting a batch of up to 100 raw transactions per request.

## Docker Build System

Modified the Dockerfile to exclude the `dash-qt` graphical wallet interface from the set of binaries copied to
`/usr/local/bin` during the Docker image build process. This change streamlines the Docker image, making it more
suitable for server environments and headless applications, where the graphical user interface of `dash-qt` is not
required. The update enhances the Docker image's efficiency by reducing its size and minimizing unnecessary components.

## Command-line options

- The same ZeroMQ notification (e.g. `-zmqpubhashtx=address`) can now be specified multiple times to publish the same
notification to different ZeroMQ sockets.

> - `-capturemessages`: Capture all P2P messages to disk, see contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md for more info

Reviewer: Is that supposed to be a link to the markdown file?

Author: Maybe this?
```suggestion
- `-capturemessages`: Capture all P2P messages to disk, see [contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md](https://github.com/dashpay/dash/blob/v20.1.0/contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md) for more info
```

Reviewer 3: path can be relative so far as I know, such as `../contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md`

+ `-capturemessages`: Capture all P2P messages to disk, see [message-capture-docs.md](contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md) for more info

Reviewer: That should work (once the tag exists) :+1:

> - `-capturemessages`: Capture all P2P messages to disk, see [contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md](https://github.com/dashpay/dash/blob/v20.1.0/contrib/message-capture/message-capture-docs.md) for more info

Reviewer: The script to parse the captured stuff isn't working due to not understanding Dash-specific messages. Not sure we want to include this line if that can't run without crashing. It severely limits the usefulness of the captured info.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Windows releases are signed by a new certificate that replaces the expired one used previously.

> # Removal of Non-Deterministic InstantSend
> 
> Legacy InstantSend was deprecated with the activation of Deterministic InstantSend but we kept the underlying logic for some time to ensure a smooth transition. v20.1 finally removes all Legacy InstantSend logic and will no longer support sending and receiving islock p2p message and inv p2p message with id equal 30. Such messages will be seen as unknown by v20.1 nodes. The protocol version was incremented to 70231 to indicate a change in network protocol. Please note that the -llmqinstantsend and -llmqtestinstantsend command line options have also been removed as part of this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removal of Non-Deterministic InstantSend

Legacy InstantSend was deprecated with the activation of Deterministic InstantSend, but we kept the underlying logic for some time to ensure a smooth transition. v20.1 finally removes all Legacy InstantSend logic and will no longer support sending and receiving islock p2p messages and inv p2p messages with id 30. Such messages will be seen as unknown by v20.1 nodes. The protocol version was incremented to 70231 to indicate a change in network protocol. Please note that the -llmqinstantsend and -llmqtestinstantsend command line options have also been removed as part of this change.
```
